README.md, before:

# Yume.js: make comics on your mobile device.

Yume.js builds on top of the excellent [P5.js](https://p5js.org/libraries/)
library and makes it easy to create shareable and hackable 3D (WebGL) comics
from your mobile device.

## Getting started

Use the [builder](https://xrd.github.com/yume.js/builder.html) to play with comics from your mobile device.

## Why?

It is (was) too hard to make comics on my mobile phone: writing JavaScript and CSS animations and HTML is impossible. So, I wrote 
a JavaScript library that parses a declarative HTML based comic language. Along the way, a data-driven option emerged as well.

## How it works

At first glance, I thought making a declarative comic language like this would be the ticket:

```html
    <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/p5.js/0.5.3/p5.js"></script>
    <script src="yume.js"></script>

    <div id="script">
      <yume:scene duration="5" camera="30,50,-100">
	<yume:caption>This is not a monitor, it is a 3D image of one.</yume:caption>
	<yume:character src="monitor"/>
      </yume:scene>
    </div>

    <script>
      var yume = new Yume();
      yume.parse( "#script" );
      yume.setup();
    </script>
```

This works: it creates a comic with a single scene, a floating monitor (from a 3D image file) in the center of the screen, 
and animates the camera from 0,0,0 to 30,50,-100 over five seconds. Then, it displays a caption that says "This is not a monitor, it is a 
3D image of one." A declarative language like this means you can write comics inside 
Markdown files in a Jekyll blog (hosted for free on GitHub) using the 
[open source](https://github.com/xrd/TeddyHyde)
[GitHub editor for Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.EditorHyde.app).

As a side effect of building this parser, I needed to convert the HTML into an intermediate data format. That format is exposed
too, so if you prefer to use JSON to define your comic, you could do this.

```javascript
var data = {};
data.models = [];
data.duration = 10;
data.models.push( { name: "man", rotate: { y: 327 },
                    position: { x: 40, y: 100, z: 150 } } );
data.camera = { x: 100, y: 30, z: -150 };
data.caption = "When I became a software developer twenty years ago, I told myself I would never become that guy: chained to my desk, immovable, uptight, angry. CYNICAL!";

var scenes = [];
scenes.push( data );
var yume = new Yume();
yume.load( scenes );
yume.setup();
```

You could of course pull from a remote source, and convert from JSON into the data too.

## Todo

- [ ] Load large models in background (make comics appear to load faster).
- [ ] Specify when captions display instead of at the end of the scene duration. 
- [ ] Add annotations for thought and speech bubbles to models.
- [ ] Add annotations as plugins: enhance models with animated stars, etc.
- [ ] Add support for primitive shapes: torus, etc.
- [ ] Add support for rotations with duration
- [ ] Is rigging possible with models?

## Adding models

If you want to add new models first find a model (search google for `3d model obj <character>`), and then, choose one of two options: fork this repository and add the model to your repository OR issue a pull request to this repository with the new model.

In either case, you should update the `builder.html` file to include the new model (the select tag, just use the name without the .obj 
extension).

You might also need to trim the model down. I found that models about 200KB or less work well. If your model is bigger
than that, you could use a tool like [https://github.com/jonnenauha/obj-simplify](https://github.com/jonnenauha/obj-simplify/)
to reduce the size of the model.

Commit message:

Vastly improve declarative processing: include position, movement

README.md, after:

# Yume.js: make comics on your mobile device.

Yume.js builds on top of the excellent [P5.js](https://p5js.org/libraries/)
library and makes it easy to create shareable and hackable 3D (WebGL) comics
from your mobile device.

## Getting started

Use the [builder](https://xrd.github.com/yume.js/builder.html) to play with comics from your mobile device.

## Why?

It is (was) too hard to make comics on my mobile phone: writing JavaScript and CSS animations and HTML is impossible. So, I wrote 
a JavaScript library that parses a declarative HTML based comic language. Along the way, a data-driven option emerged as well.

## How it works

At first glance, I thought making a declarative comic language like this would be the ticket:

```html
    <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/p5.js/0.5.3/p5.js"></script>
    <script src="yume.js"></script>

    <div id="script">
      <yume:scene duration="5" camera="30,50,-100">
	<yume:caption>This is not a monitor, it is a 3D image of one.</yume:caption>
	<yume:character src="monitor"/>
      </yume:scene>
    </div>

    <script>
      var yume = new Yume();
      yume.parse( "#script" );
      yume.setup();
    </script>
```

This works: it creates a comic with a single scene, a floating monitor (from a 3D image file) in the center of the screen, 
and animates the camera from 0,0,0 to 30,50,-100 over five seconds. Then, it displays a caption that says "This is not a monitor, it is a 
3D image of one." A declarative language like this means you can write comics inside 
Markdown files in a Jekyll blog (hosted for free on GitHub) using the 
[open source](https://github.com/xrd/TeddyHyde)
[GitHub editor for Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.EditorHyde.app).

As a side effect of building this parser, I needed to convert the HTML into an intermediate data format. That format is exposed
too, so if you prefer to use JSON to define your comic, you could do this.

```javascript
var data = {};
data.models = [];
data.duration = 10;
data.models.push( { name: "man", rotate: { y: 327 },
                    position: { x: 40, y: 100, z: 150 } } );
data.camera = { x: 100, y: 30, z: -150 };
data.caption = "When I became a software developer twenty years ago, I told myself I would never become that guy: chained to my desk, immovable, uptight, angry. CYNICAL!";

var scenes = [];
scenes.push( data );
var yume = new Yume();
yume.load( scenes );
yume.setup();
```

You could of course pull from a remote source, and convert from JSON into the data too.

## Todo

- [ ] Load large models in background (make comics appear to load faster).
- [ ] Specify when captions display instead of at the end of the scene duration. 
- [ ] Add support for model rotations over duration in scene
- [ ] Add support for model movement over duration in scene
- [ ] Add annotations for thought and speech bubbles to models.
- [ ] Add annotations as plugins: enhance models with animated stars, etc.
- [ ] Specify any jQuery.easing functions if you have that library loaded.
- [ ] Add support for primitive shapes: torus, etc.
- [ ] Is rigging possible with models?

## Adding models

If you want to add new models first find a model (search google for `3d model obj <character>`), and then, choose one of two options: fork this repository and add the model to your repository OR issue a pull request to this repository with the new model.

In either case, you should update the `builder.html` file to include the new model (the select tag, just use the name without the .obj 
extension).

You might also need to trim the model down. I found that models about 200KB or less work well. If your model is bigger
than that, you could use a tool like [https://github.com/jonnenauha/obj-simplify](https://github.com/jonnenauha/obj-simplify/)
to reduce the size of the model.
